README.md, before:

# Access management web service 

[![Build Status]( https://travis-ci.org/hmcts/am-api?branch=master)]( https://travis-ci.org/hmcts/am-api)

## Purpose

Access management web service 

## What's inside


The application exposes health endpoint (http://localhost:2703/health) and metrics endpoint
(http://localhost:2703/metrics).

## Setup

Located in `./bin/init.sh`. Simply run and follow the explanation how to execute it.

## Notes

Since Spring Boot 2.1 bean overriding is disabled. If you want to enable it you will need to set `spring.main.allow-bean-definition-overriding` to `true`.

JUnit 5 is now enabled by default in the project. Please refrain from using JUnit4 and use the next generation

## Building and deploying the application

### Building the application

The project uses [Gradle](https://gradle.org) as a build tool. It already contains
`./gradlew` wrapper script, so there's no need to install gradle.

To build the project execute the following command:

```bash
  ./gradlew build
```

### Running the application

Create the image of the application by executing the following command:

```bash
  ./gradlew assemble
```

Create docker image:

```bash
  docker-compose build
```

Run the distribution (created in `build/install/spring-boot-template` directory)
by executing the following command:

```bash
  docker-compose up
```

This will start the API container exposing the application's port

In order to test if the application is up, you can call its health endpoint:

```bash
  curl http://localhost:2703/health
```

You should get a response similar to this:

```
  {"status":"UP","diskSpace":{"status":"UP","total":249644974080,"free":137188298752,"threshold":10485760}}
```

### Alternative script to run application

To skip all the setting up and building, just execute the following command:

```bash
./bin/run-in-docker.sh
```

For more information:

```bash
./bin/run-in-docker.sh -h
```

Script includes bare minimum environment variables necessary to start api instance. Whenever any variable is changed or any other script regarding docker image/container build, the suggested way to ensure all is cleaned up properly is by this command:

```bash
docker-compose rm
```

It clears stopped containers correctly. Might consider removing clutter of images too, especially the ones fiddled with:

```bash
docker images

docker image rm <image-id>
```

There is no need to remove postgres and java or similar core images.
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

[PREVIEW] AM-50: initial flyway pipeline check with Schema in this project (#5)
* AM-50: initial flyway pipeline check with Schema in this project

* AM-50: dependency check suppressions update

* AM-50: terraform variable name changes

* AM-50: gradle logging for a jenkins check

* change vault name infra

* add shared resource group

* AM-50: key vault dynamic name test

* change infra config to use shared infra

* change shared resource group name

* add sharedResourceGroup as an output

* infra changes

* AM-50: cleanup and readme update

* AM-50: enabled db migration for sandbox env

README.md, after:

# Access management web service 

[![Build Status]( https://travis-ci.org/hmcts/am-api?branch=master)]( https://travis-ci.org/hmcts/am-api)

## Purpose

Access management web service 

## What's inside

The application exposes health endpoint (http://localhost:2703/health) and metrics endpoint
(http://localhost:2703/metrics).

## Setup

Located in `./bin/init.sh`. Simply run and follow the explanation how to execute it.

## Notes

Since Spring Boot 2.1 bean overriding is disabled. If you want to enable it you will need to set `spring.main.allow-bean-definition-overriding` to `true`.

JUnit 5 is now enabled by default in the project. Please refrain from using JUnit4 and use the next generation

## Building and deploying the application

### Building the application

The project uses [Gradle](https://gradle.org) as a build tool. It already contains
`./gradlew` wrapper script, so there's no need to install gradle.

To build the project execute the following command:

```bash
  ./gradlew build
```

### Running the application

Create the image of the application by executing the following command:

```bash
  ./gradlew assemble
```

Create docker image:

```bash
  docker-compose build
```

Run the distribution (created in `build/install/spring-boot-template` directory)
by executing the following command:

```bash
  docker-compose up
```

This will start the API container exposing the application's port

In order to test if the application is up, you can call its health endpoint:

```bash
  curl http://localhost:2703/health
```

You should get a response similar to this:

```
  {"status":"UP","diskSpace":{"status":"UP","total":249644974080,"free":137188298752,"threshold":10485760}}
```

### Alternative script to run application

To skip all the setting up and building, just execute the following command:

```bash
./bin/run-in-docker.sh
```

For more information:

```bash
./bin/run-in-docker.sh -h
```

Script includes bare minimum environment variables necessary to start api instance. Whenever any variable is changed or any other script regarding docker image/container build, the suggested way to ensure all is cleaned up properly is by this command:

```bash
docker-compose rm
```

It clears stopped containers correctly. Might consider removing clutter of images too, especially the ones fiddled with:

```bash
docker images

docker image rm <image-id>
```
There is no need to remove postgres and java or similar core images.

## Flyway migration (pipeline)
`build.gradle` contains a task `migratePostgresDatabase` which is used by the Jenkins pipeline to run the migrations, for more details search HMCTS pipeline related repos.

## Flyway migration (locally)
To run migration locally, first start postgres instance, for example local docker attached to the project `docker-compose up am-api-db`.
Next run flywayMigrate task, `./gradlew flywayMigrate`.

### Customizing flyway migration (locally)
When connection to a different database is needed (for migrations) update in `build.gradle` file, task `flyway` with proper connection details. https://flywaydb.org/documentation/gradle/migrate - for more details

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
